_pages/projects.md, before:

---
permalink: /projects/
title: "projects"
---

## FSAE Cooling Loop
**Highlander Racing** | UC Riverside | March 2024 – Present

![Cooling Loop Render](/assets/images/FINALLLRENDER.png)

Led analysis, design, and testing of a liquid-cooling loop for a Formula SAE Electric racecar. Managed thermal requirements for motor and inverter while meeting FSAE rules constraints and packaging limitations.

### Analysis
Built a MATLAB thermal simulation workflow modeling motor/inverter heat generation and radiator dissipation to predict coolant temperatures throughout a dynamic race lap.

- Calculated pressure drops (major and minor losses) using Swamee-Jain equation/Colebrooke-White Iterative Solver.
- Validated flow rate requirements → collaborated with EE team to implement a custom 97.4% efficient 21V boost converter to meet 8 LpM target
- Developed empirical test methods to validate flow rates, cavitation thresholds, and loop volume

![Thermal Simulation Results](/assets/images/matlab_thermal.png)
*Placeholder: MATLAB output showing coolant temperature vs. lap time*

### Design
Designed the complete cooling architecture with focus on serviceability and compact packaging.

- Created 3D-printed pump mounts and sheet metal mounting tabs in SolidWorks
- Managed CAD assembly integration with full vehicle (suspension, chassis, battery pack)
- Produced GD&T-compliant manufacturing drawings for machine shop fabrication

![CAD Assembly](/assets/images/cooling_cad_assembly.png)
*Placeholder: Isometric view showing cooling loop integrated with chassis*

### Testing & Controls
Instrumented the system with thermocouples and Hall-Effect flow meter to log data and verify simulation predictions.

- Bench-tested loop for leaks, flow rate verification, pump performance
- Implemented embedded fan control system on Arduino Uno R3 using custom PWM curves for six 36W fans—significantly reduced power draw while maintaining optimal temperatures

![Testing Setup](/assets/images/cooling_bench_test.png)
*Placeholder: Photo of bench test setup with instrumentation*

### Team Leadership
Scaled the Cooling Subteam from 2 to 11 members (4x typical annual intake). Standardized documentation by implementing FFMEA and assembly manuals to ensure knowledge transfer across graduation cycles.

---

## Personal Projects

### Strava Route Planner (R'Cycle Co-Op)
**Status**: Ongoing | [GitHub](#)

Built a Python-based cycling route planner that generates bike loops using ~5,000 miles of personal Strava data. Most routing tools optimize for speed or distance—this optimizes for air quality and UV exposure to reduce health impacts from exercising in industrial corridors.

![Route Generation Example](/assets/images/strava_routes.png)
*Placeholder: Map showing generated routes overlaid with air quality data*

**Current Features**:
- Route generation from personal ride history using Strava API
- Loop creation algorithm for discovering new areas
- GPX export for navigation

**In Progress**:
- Integration with EPA AirNow API for real-time PM2.5 data
- UV index overlay to minimize sun exposure during peak hours
- Route scoring system balancing distance, air quality, and shade coverage

**Technical Stack**: Python (NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib), Strava API, Folium for mapping

**Motivation**: Riding through Riverside's industrial corridors means exposure to PM2.5 levels that regularly exceed EPA thresholds. A 10-mile route through freight zones vs. residential areas can mean a 40% difference in particulate exposure.

---

### Home Energy Dashboard
**Status**: Complete (2025) | [GitHub](#)

Created a modular home energy simulation and dashboard modeling HVAC, appliances, EV charging, and solar PV for a 3-bedroom house. The goal: identify system-level optimization opportunities that aren't obvious from individual component behavior.

![Energy Dashboard Interface](/assets/images/energy_dashboard_ui.png)
*Placeholder: Screenshot of dashboard showing energy flows*

**Features**:
- Season-aware cost, load, and solar generation profiles
- Interactive sliders for real-time control (HVAC setpoints, EV charge timing)
- Analytics for peak load, subsystem energy shares, and solar offset
- Actionable efficiency recommendations

![Sankey Diagram](/assets/images/energy_sankey.png)
*Placeholder: Sankey diagram showing energy flows between solar, grid, HVAC, EV, and household loads*

**Key Findings**:
- HVAC pre-cooling before ToU peak rates saves ~$15/month in summer
- Shifting EV charging to solar production hours reduces grid draw by 40%
- Solar offset maximization requires coordinating appliance schedules with generation curves

**Technical Stack**: Python (Pandas, Matplotlib), modular simulation architecture, Jupyter notebooks for analysis

**Next Steps**: Add predictive modeling using weather forecasts to automate HVAC scheduling and EV charge timing.

---

## Utthunga Internship Projects (Summer 2025)

### Thermal Simulation & Design Optimization
Performed thermal simulation and design optimization for electronic enclosures:

- **Fanless Automotive ECU**: Used Altair SimLab to analyze MOSFET temperatures and recommend cooling improvements
- **HART Simulator Enclosure**: Refined sheet metal design in SolidWorks for manufacturability and thermal performance

![Thermal Simulation Results](/assets/images/utthunga_thermal.png)
*Placeholder: SimLab temperature contour plot*

### Python Diagnostic Tools

**Pump Performance Classifier**:
- Created a parametric tool for generating pump performance curves
- Built a 96%-accurate classifier using synthetic sensor data to predict OK/Warning/Failure states
- Enables predictive maintenance before catastrophic pump failure

**Heat Exchanger Analysis Tool**:
- Automated heat exchanger design calculations using LMTD and ε-NTU methods
- Modular Python architecture for rapid parameter sweeps
- Reduced manual calculation effort for thermal design iterations

**Technical Stack**: Python (NumPy, SciPy, scikit-learn), synthetic data generation for ML training

---

## Robotics

### FIRST Robotics Competition Team 256 (President, 2019-2023)

Led subteams in designing, fabricating, and assembling competition robots for FRC. Managed team operations through COVID-19 by implementing sub-team structure, which improved member retention to 90% and restored technical skills pipeline.

- Taught Fusion 360 and machine shop safety to 25+ members
- Oversaw mechanical design, fabrication, and assembly processes
- Coordinated cross-functional teams (mechanical, electrical, programming, business)

![FRC Robot](/assets/images/frc_robot.png)
*Placeholder: Photo of competition robot or team at event*

**Skills Developed**: Project management, technical mentorship, CAD/CAM workflows, systems integration

---

Commit message:

Revise project details and update images
Updated project descriptions and images for FSAE Cooling Loop, Cycling Route Planner, and Home Energy Dashboard. Improved clarity and added new images for better representation.

_pages/projects.md, after:

---
permalink: /projects/
title: "projects"
---

## FSAE Cooling Loop
**Highlander Racing** | UC Riverside | March 2024 – Present

Led analysis, design, and testing of a liquid-cooling loop for a Formula SAE Electric racecar. Managed thermal requirements for motor and inverter while meeting FSAE rules constraints and packaging limitations.

### Analysis
Built a MATLAB thermal simulation workflow modeling motor/inverter heat generation and radiator dissipation to predict coolant temperatures throughout a dynamic race lap.

- Calculated pressure drops (major and minor losses) using Swamee-Jain equation/Colebrooke-White Iterative Solver.
- Validated flow rate requirements → collaborated with EE team to implement a custom 97.4% efficient 21V boost converter to meet 8 LpM target
- Developed empirical test methods to validate flow rates, cavitation thresholds, and loop volume

![Thermal Simulation Results](/assets/images/T_bulk_compare.png)
*Placeholder: MATLAB output showing coolant temperature vs. lap time*


![{Pump vs. System Curve](/assets/images/pump_system_curve_21V.png)

### Design
Designed the complete cooling architecture with focus on serviceability and compact packaging.

- Created 3D-printed pump mounts and sheet metal mounting tabs in SolidWorks
- Managed CAD assembly integration with full vehicle (suspension, chassis, battery pack)
- Produced GD&T-compliant manufacturing drawings for machine shop fabrication

![CAD Assembly](/assets/images/FINALLLRENDER.png)
*Placeholder: Isometric view showing cooling loop*

### Testing & Controls
Instrumented the system with thermocouples and Hall-Effect flow meter to log data and verify simulation predictions.

- Bench-tested loop for leaks, flow rate verification, pump performance
- Implemented embedded fan control system on Arduino Uno R3 using custom PWM curves for six 36W fans—significantly reduced power draw while maintaining optimal temperatures

### Team Leadership
Scaled the Cooling Subteam from 2 to 11 members (4x typical annual intake). Standardized documentation by implementing FFMEA and assembly manuals to ensure knowledge transfer across graduation cycles.

---

## Personal Projects

### Strava Route Planner (R'Cycle Co-Op)
**Status**: Ongoing | [GitHub](#)

Built a Python-based cycling route planner that generates bike loops using ~5,000 miles of personal Strava data. Most routing tools optimize for speed or distance—this optimizes for air quality and UV exposure to reduce health impacts from exercising in industrial corridors.

**Current Features**:
- Route generation from personal ride history using Strava API
- Loop creation algorithm for discovering new areas
- GPX export for navigation

**In Progress**:
- Integration with pollution data for PM2.5 data
- UV index overlay to minimize sun exposure during peak hours
- Route scoring system balancing distance, air quality, and shade coverage

**Technical Stack**: Python (NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib), Strava API, Folium for mapping

**Motivation**: Riding through Riverside's industrial corridors, I became interested in crafting routes that protect me from PM 2.5 pollutants and reduce my exposure to harmful effects of UV.

---

### Home Energy Dashboard
**Status**: Complete (2025) | [GitHub](#)

Created a modular home energy simulation and dashboard modeling HVAC, appliances, EV charging, and solar PV for a 3-bedroom house. The goal: identify system-level optimization opportunities that aren't obvious from individual component behavior.

**Features**:
- Season-aware cost, load, and solar generation profiles
- Interactive sliders for real-time control (HVAC setpoints, EV charge timing)
- Analytics for peak load, subsystem energy shares, and solar offset
- Actionable efficiency recommendations

**Technical Stack**: Python (Pandas, Matplotlib), modular simulation architecture, Jupyter notebooks for analysis

**Next Steps**: Add predictive modeling using weather forecasts to automate HVAC scheduling and EV charge timing.

---

## Utthunga Internship Projects (Summer 2025)

### Thermal Simulation & Design Optimization
Performed thermal simulation and design optimization for electronic enclosures:

- **Fanless Automotive ECU**: Used Altair SimLab to analyze MOSFET temperatures and recommend cooling improvements
- **HART Simulator Enclosure**: Refined sheet metal design in SolidWorks for manufacturability and thermal performance

### Python Diagnostic Tools

**Pump Performance Classifier**:
- Created a parametric tool for generating pump performance curves
- Built a 96%-accurate classifier using synthetic sensor data to predict OK/Warning/Failure states
- Enables predictive maintenance before catastrophic pump failure

**Heat Exchanger Analysis Tool**:
- Automated heat exchanger design calculations using LMTD and ε-NTU methods
- Modular Python architecture for rapid parameter sweeps
- Reduced manual calculation effort for thermal design iterations

**Technical Stack**: Python (NumPy, SciPy, scikit-learn), synthetic data generation for ML training

<iframe src="[https://docs.google.com](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LgaIKOzjAINw8J1G5FmG4zZgErZOmGkj/view?usp=sharing)" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

---

## Robotics

### FIRST Robotics Competition Team 256 (President, 2019-2023)

Led subteams in designing, fabricating, and assembling competition robots for FRC. Managed team operations through COVID-19 by implementing sub-team structure, which improved member retention to 90% and restored technical skills pipeline.

- Taught Fusion 360 and machine shop safety to 25+ members
- Oversaw mechanical design, fabrication, and assembly processes
- Coordinated cross-functional teams (mechanical, electrical, programming, business)

![FRC Robot](/assets/images/frc_robot.png)
*Placeholder: Photo of competition robot or team at event*

**Skills Developed**: Project management, technical mentorship, CAD/CAM workflows, systems integration

---
